README.rst, before:

================
django-factories
================

django-factories provides a convenient way to generate model instances for use
in your tests.  It is inspired by the Ruby project factory_girl_.

.. _factory_girl: http://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl

Installation
------------

This project is not yet available on PyPI.  For now you can try it out by
cloning it from github::

    $ git clone git://github.com/mirhampt/django-factories.git
    $ cd django-factories
    $ python setup.py install

Usage
-----

First, you need to create a subclass of ``Factory`` and define some blueprints.
Blueprints define the default values for the models generated by the factory
class.  A blueprint method should return a dict and use the ``blueprint``
decorator.  Here is a simple example for a fictional ``blog`` app::

    from factories import Factory, blueprint

    class BlogFactory(Factory):
        "Factory for blog application."

        @blueprint(model='blog.Post')
        def post(self):
            "A simple public blog post."
            return {
                'title': 'Blog Post',
                'content': "Sorry I haven't posted in a while...",
                'is_public': True,
            }

        @blueprint(model='blog.Post')
        def private_post(self):
            "A private blog post."
            post = self.post()
            post['is_public'] = False
            return post

        @blueprint(model='blog.Author')
        def author(self):
            "A blog author."
            return {
                'first_names': 'John',
                'last_name': 'Doe',
                'email': '%(first_names)s_%(last_name)s@somewhere',
            }

For each blueprint, two methods will be created based on the name of the
blueprint:

build_<blueprint_name>
    This method will create an instance of the model passed to the
    ``blueprint`` decorator using the defaults provided by the blueprint.  Any
    keyword arguments passed to this method will be used to override the
    default blueprint data.

create_<blueprint_name>
    This method acts the same as the build method described above, but saves
    the model instance to the database before returning it.

Now, we can create an instance of ``BlogFactory`` and start generating test
data::

    >>> blog_factory = BlogFactory()

    >>> public_post = blog_factory.build_post()
    >>> public_post.title
    'Blog Post'
    >>> public_post.content
    "Sorry I haven't posted in a while..."
    >>> public_post.is_public
    True
    >>> public_post.pk is None # The post was not saved to the database.
    True

    # The create_post method also saves the instance to the database.
    >>> saved_post = blog_factory.create_post()
    >>> saved_post.pk is None
    False

    >>> private_post = blog_factory.build_private_post()
    >>> private_post.title
    'Blog Post'
    >>> private_post.content
    "Sorry I haven't posted in a while..."
    >>> private_post.is_public
    False

Individual defaults provided by the blueprint can be overridden::

    >>> new_post = blog_factory.build_post(title='Brand new post')
    >>> new_post.title
    'Brand new post'

If any of the strings in the blueprint include standard Python formatting by
key name syntax, the values of the other parameters will be interpolated into
the string::

    >>> author = blog_factory.build_author()
    >>> author.email
    'John_Doe@somewhere'

    >>> sam_author = blog_factory.build_author(first_names='Sam')
    >>> author.email
    'Sam_Doe@somewhere'

A simple factory for the ``flatpages`` contrib app is included::

    >>> from factories.flat_pages import FlatPageFactory

    >>> fp_factory = FlatPageFactory()
    >>> public_page = fp_factory.create_flat_page()
    >>> protected_page = fp_factory.create_protected_flat_page()

Todo
----

- Support associations between blueprints.
- Support numerical sequences in blueprints.
- Write more bundled factories for contrib apps: auth, sites, etc.
- Create management command to print out information about available
  blueprints.
- Write a tutorial.

Bug Reports
-----------

Please report bugs via github's
`issue tracker <http://github.com/mirhampt/django-factories/issues>`_.

Commit message:

Added support for default blueprints.
Default blueprints (cunningly named "default") have additional methods
added to the Factory class: build and create, without the blueprint
name included.

README.rst, after:

================
django-factories
================

django-factories provides a convenient way to generate model instances for use
in your tests.  It is inspired by the Ruby project factory_girl_.

.. _factory_girl: http://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl

Installation
------------

This project is not yet available on PyPI.  For now you can try it out by
cloning it from github::

    $ git clone git://github.com/mirhampt/django-factories.git
    $ cd django-factories
    $ python setup.py install

Usage
-----

First, you need to create a subclass of ``Factory`` and define some blueprints.
Blueprints define the default values for the models generated by the factory
class.  A blueprint method should return a dict and use the ``blueprint``
decorator.  Here is a simple example for a fictional ``blog`` app::

    from factories import Factory, blueprint

    class BlogFactory(Factory):
        "Factory for blog application."

        @blueprint(model='blog.Post')
        def post(self):
            "A simple public blog post."
            return {
                'title': 'Blog Post',
                'content': "Sorry I haven't posted in a while...",
                'is_public': True,
            }

        @blueprint(model='blog.Post')
        def private_post(self):
            "A private blog post."
            post = self.post()
            post['is_public'] = False
            return post

        @blueprint(model='blog.Author')
        def author(self):
            "A blog author."
            return {
                'first_names': 'John',
                'last_name': 'Doe',
                'email': '%(first_names)s_%(last_name)s@somewhere',
            }

For each blueprint, two methods will be created based on the name of the
blueprint:

build_<blueprint_name>
    This method will create an instance of the model passed to the
    ``blueprint`` decorator using the defaults provided by the blueprint.  Any
    keyword arguments passed to this method will be used to override the
    default blueprint data.

create_<blueprint_name>
    This method acts the same as the build method described above, but saves
    the model instance to the database before returning it.

If your blueprint is named ``default``, the factory will also have a
``build()`` and ``create()`` method, which are aliases for
``build_default()`` and ``create_default()``.


Now, we can create an instance of ``BlogFactory`` and start generating test
data::

    >>> blog_factory = BlogFactory()

    >>> public_post = blog_factory.build_post()
    >>> public_post.title
    'Blog Post'
    >>> public_post.content
    "Sorry I haven't posted in a while..."
    >>> public_post.is_public
    True
    >>> public_post.pk is None # The post was not saved to the database.
    True

    # The create_post method also saves the instance to the database.
    >>> saved_post = blog_factory.create_post()
    >>> saved_post.pk is None
    False

    >>> private_post = blog_factory.build_private_post()
    >>> private_post.title
    'Blog Post'
    >>> private_post.content
    "Sorry I haven't posted in a while..."
    >>> private_post.is_public
    False

Individual defaults provided by the blueprint can be overridden::

    >>> new_post = blog_factory.build_post(title='Brand new post')
    >>> new_post.title
    'Brand new post'

If any of the strings in the blueprint include standard Python formatting by
key name syntax, the values of the other parameters will be interpolated into
the string::

    >>> author = blog_factory.build_author()
    >>> author.email
    'John_Doe@somewhere'

    >>> sam_author = blog_factory.build_author(first_names='Sam')
    >>> author.email
    'Sam_Doe@somewhere'

A simple factory for the ``flatpages`` contrib app is included::

    >>> from factories.flat_pages import FlatPageFactory

    >>> fp_factory = FlatPageFactory()
    >>> public_page = fp_factory.create_flat_page()
    >>> protected_page = fp_factory.create_protected_flat_page()

Todo
----

- Support associations between blueprints.
- Support numerical sequences in blueprints.
- Write more bundled factories for contrib apps: auth, sites, etc.
- Create management command to print out information about available
  blueprints.
- Write a tutorial.

Bug Reports
-----------

Please report bugs via github's
`issue tracker <http://github.com/mirhampt/django-factories/issues>`_.
